Parainfo (#1904)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/build-parachains-rococo.md

the [Westend](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/maintain-networks#westend-test-network) test
network.

Below you will find a general plan on how we approach onboarding parachains within this new
environment.

## Relevant Values and Calculations

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that these are example values; all are subject to change.

```

- Lease Period Length: 1 Day = 14400 Blocks
- Ending Period: 15 Min = 150 Blocks
- Current Lease Period Index = Current Block Number / 14400

## Registration

All Parachains will need to Register as a "Parathread" first.

![](https://i.imgur.com/1orqcCx.png)

To do this, they need:

- A unique Parachain ID (one that has not been previously registered)
- Runtime Wasm
- Initial Head Data

After submission of this data, it will take 2 sessions (30 min x 2) for the candidate to fully
onboard to a Parathread.

> Note: All transitions of a Para into different states will take at least 2 sessions (onboarding,
> offboarding, upgrading, downgrading, etc.)

## Slots

> To start, we will only have 5 or 6 slots available on Rococo to ensure that the chain functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, only 5 or 6 slots are planned to be available on Rococo to ensure that the chain functions
```

properly.

3 of these slots will be our "system chains": Tick, Track, and Trick

This means only 2 or 3 slots will be available for parachain auctions.

### System Chains

The system chains were given a lease through `Slots > force_lease`, bypassing the auction process.

Once they are a parathreads, we can call `force_lease` like so:

```
fn force_lease(origin,
	para: ParaId,
	leaser: T::AccountId,
	amount: BalanceOf<T>,
	period_begin: LeasePeriodOf<T>,
	period_count: LeasePeriodOf<T>,
)
```

- `origin`: Must be root
- `para`: The registered ParaId for the Parachain
- `leaser`: The person who will pay the deposit `amount`.
- `amount`: How much we reserve from `leaser`.
- `period_begin`: The first lease period for the slot.
- `period_count`: The number of lease periods to reserve.

So assuming we start at genesis, and Trick is `ParaId(0)` something like:

```
force_lease(ParaId(0), Alice, 0, 0, 100)
```

> Would give Trick 100 lease periods, starting at lease period 0, but it wouldn't start until period 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
would give Trick 100 lease periods, starting at lease period 0, but it wouldn't start until period 1
```
